we have with us here today mr. Steve
Smith is the author of a book called the
psychopathy machine I'm very glad to
have him here to tell his story in 1968
when he was just a teenager Steve found
himself pulled into the justice system
in Canada and it happens all too often I
think the system sort of took over and
Steve though he was brought in for a
very minor crime was eventually ended up
in Oakridge Penetanguishene a mental
hospital for the criminally insane and
was subjected to a really bizarre series
of treatment I guess you might call it
but a judge has recently ruled it that
it was more torture so thank you Steve
for agreeing to talk so I first heard
about Steve and a radio interview he did
in 2001 and a couple months ago I ran
across some articles in Canada's Globe
and Mail that a judge had made a ruling
due to a class-action lawsuit from
several patients that were at this
facility that what happened there was
indeed torture and so if I can just read
a couple paragraphs from this article
this is The Globe and Mail June 7th 2017
patients at a maximum-security mental
health facility in Ontario were tortured
by medical doctors over a 17 year period
and unethical and degrading human
experiments a judge has ruled in a
lawsuit techniques used on the patients
between 1966 and 1983 included solitary
confinement as treatment and as
punishment administration of
hallucinogens and delirium producing
drugs including LSD and brainwashing
methods developed by the CIA according
to Justice Paul Parral of Ontario
Superior Court of Justice some of the
patients at Oak Ridge Division of the
pent anguish teen mental health center
in central Ontario had been charged with
crimes such as rape murder and child
abuse and them found not guilty by
reason of insanity others had simply
been committed by their doctors and in
Steve's case I guess committed by the
justice system but we'll talk about all
that Oakridge doctors contended that
with intensive therapy the patients that
come could someday be freed an estimated
twelve hundred and sixty patients spent
time in the program between 1965 and
when witness when the series of articles
came out and this ruling came out how
did that make you feel that a judge had
kind of finally ruled what had happened
to you to be torture and completely
unethical it didn't really mean all that
much to me I knew that for decades and I
started working on this probably 20
years ago and went through a 16 year
lawsuit myself I actually started what
he eventually turned into the
class-action lawsuit
although I didn't want to be part of the
class-action suit because I didn't
consider myself to be part of that class
at all so wasn't surprising that they
finally came around to recognizing that
what they were doing in there with
torture because it was but more
importantly is why were they doing it or
what the purpose of this what was behind
all of this as far as I know the judge
didn't really make any comments on the
reason for just the facts that it was
arching and I I'm assuming being aid
some kind of settlement with the people
involved in the class-action suit I
settled myself several years ago
different circumstances do you want to
talk a little bit about how you got
pulled into the system and and how you
found yourself in that in that hospital
and you know what what that hospital
kind of was to the people in Ontario and
you know how you found yourself in there
and then we can talk about the events
that occurred I've been there okay
it's probably better described in my
book I don't plug it the psychopath
machine that I want to say I just I read
the book and it's a very interesting
book and people should if they really
want to hear the full story of of what
has happened to definitely pick up that
book it's available on Amazon and it's
definitely really an interesting expose
of what happened to Steve here so
essentially I was I was a hippie in 1968
hitchhiking across Canada heading for
the west coast which a lot of people in
my generation doing at the time
and I found myself in a circumstance
where I was pretty much a banger stuck
in a spot on the road freezing cold and
wound up stealing a car and got busted
and of course I've had some LSD at the
time did that and the assumption was
that I must be psychotic because they
didn't know very much about LSD at the
time so it was a brief thing it was
whatever one day episode but when I went
in front of a judge the next day they
sent me off for observation and
apparently all of my research all over
the years it looks as though they were
profiling people they were looking for
people of the fitted to a certain
category and ultimately I was shipped
off through Penetanguishene Hospital for
the criminally insane committed for no
particular reason and found myself in
this program for eight months
fortunately only eight months other
people who were there much longer
probably did much worse than me so
that's how I wound up in the program
it's a nightmare scenario this I suppose
movies have been made of people being
dragged backwards down the halls
screaming I'm not crazy in this
nightmare psychiatric hospital that's
precisely what Oakridge is it doesn't
look like a hospital wall looks like a
prison
the building is gone but there are
historic records um absolutely
nightmarish it's a horrible place steel
bars when you go in there you don't see
the daylight again until you get out and
in many cases that means forever so yeah
it's not the kind of place that yeah I
knew about Oak Ridge beforehand I
suppose it was just kind of an urban
myth this place in in Georgian Bay in
Ontario this isolated place that strange
things go on and then one day I found
myself locked up in there
and I mean some of the you talk some in
your book about some of the people who
were in here do you wanna I mean you you
were taken for stealing a car and
happened to have been taking some LSD
and put in with really some of the worst
of the worst you want to talk about you
know some of that would you want to talk
about some of the people who were you
were thrown in there with oh these are
bad bad bad people it's it's hard to
have sympathy for them you can't torture
people it doesn't matter how bad they're
you can't use them as guinea pigs
you can't use them as as subjects for
some nefarious government inspired
brainwashing program you can't do that
no matter how bad these people are but
they're murderers rapists arsons mostly
Psychopaths now what they were up to in
Oakridge had in my opinion and this
comes from decades of research and I
think the courts would agree with it now
they weren't looking to cure Psychopaths
they were looking to either uncover
Psychopaths and put them to use or to
create Psychopaths that's what this was
about the concept of psychopathy was
relatively new then they didn't know a
lot about how does one become a
psychopath and because of the nature of
these people they commit these crimes
with absolutely no conscience no empathy
to certain elements of society
military police that can be a useful
thing someone working for you that has
no empathy so I believe that this
program in Oakridge and other places
inspired by CIA and other defense
contractors they were looking for ways
to sort out non Psychopaths from
psychopathic personalities and put them
to use that's precisely what they did
and over a period of maybe two 20 years
of research I found enough evidence to
really back that up
but getting on to the people again one
that recently died Peter Woodcock also
known as cruelly very bad got a multiple
child molester and murderer I was
handcuffed to this guy while on drugs
for days on it just nightmare scenarios
these are all very bad people I'd like
to say one of the problems with with
this with this loss the class-action
lawsuit being resolved but I'm concerned
about is what happens when you give
these people a settlement what happens
when you give them money I don't know
who survived and I don't know much about
the state of mind of these people today
how they are but if indeed they are
seriously damaged psychopaths and by the
way I'm not a psychopath if they are
seriously damaged psychopaths then if
you give them a huge court settlement
you might facilitate that to do horrible
things I'm not sure if a financial
settlement is really a good thing in
this my opinion but comparing it to the
financial settlement for Native schools
the problem in the past with abuse in
Native schools where they they gave a
lot of survivors financial settlement
and many of them just drank themselves
to death with it very bad thing just
giving them money is not the solution so
the lawsuit I don't know it's not very
meaningful to me what's important is
what was behind this and what did this
lawsuit revealed are they going to
settle this and just give these people
money and say okay it's over well it's
not over
right well let's let's go on them go
over some of the this is from the
Toronto Sun June 8 2017 these are a few
paragraphs that describe the actual
quote unquote treatment that were handed
out and you can and you know talk about
your experience with these these
treatments were developed at Oak Ridge
and administered in part by dr. Elliot
Thompson Barker and dr. Gary Meyer the
two psychiatrists named as plaintiffs in
the suit defense disruptive therapy
involved forcibly giving patients
hallucinogenic and delirium producing
drugs in order to break down the
patient's defense mechanisms and force
them to confront their abnormal behavior
the motivation attitude participation
program involved forcing patients to
complete 14 days of perfect behavior
including and hearing two rules about
unauthorized talking or movement one
component of the program involved
forcing patients to sit on a bare floor
with hands cuffed only allowing them to
move four times within four hours in a
confined space of three feet failure to
comply could result in forced sedation
or being placed in solitary confinement
a third initiative which you talked
about in your book it's called the
capsule program involves chaining up
seven people together in a room
stripping them naked and giving them and
keeping them in a state for day in that
state for days at a time
the room was continuously lit and
featured holes in the walls through
which occupants were fed only through
liquid only liquid food through straws
patients were kept under constant
surveillance and often given
hallucinogenic drugs against their will
now you experienced this yourself
can you describe further what that was
like and what you did you think there
was any purpose to it or did you feel
you you also talk about these patient
committees where the patients were the
ones deciding who what other patients
got drugs and things like that it's a
it's the inmates running the asylum as
you as you said yeah it is that do not
desire scenario where indeed the inmates
for running the asylum but what's
interesting about a lot of these
programs
as as bizarre as they were and as
torturous as they were how they
originated dr. Barker before he started
work at Oakridge went on a world tour he
was fresh out of university out of
medical school he was hired by Oak Ridge
and was given one year sabbatical where
he traveled to East Germany at the time
it was behind the Iron Curtain and China
Burma
he had long discussions with him in the
intervening years about about his
travels the places he went and the
things that he learned he went to China
before China was even open to the West
how he did that
good knows but he visited prisons and
concentration camps in Iron Curtain
countries and he most certainly learned
those techniques and brought them back
to Oakridge to develop this program this
is doc Kim ended I have I have bills I'm
waiting for dr. Barker to die he's still
alive he's about 80 now and he's still
in practice but when he's thought and IV
to publish about the ste page email
conversation between the two of us in
[ __ ] he tells me though his travels in
iron curtain' iron country Iron Curtain
countries and various Tory of states and
the things that he learned you know in
in Russia was very common to put
political dissenters into mental
hospitals where they would essentially
brainwash them re-educate them well he
learned these techniques from these Iron
Curtain countries he visited China
before Nixon opened China to the West I
don't know how he did it but this is by
his own admission so it's pretty clear
to me what they were doing and where
these techniques came from they that
they didn't invent these techniques in
Oakridge they were imported from torture
States another well-documented event in
in US and I'm believe Canadian history
as well is the fact that there were
these you know Nazi scientists brought
in
Operation Paperclip that had done that
experiments like that during I guess the
Second World War but you know do you
want to talk about what it was like to
be in these experiments how did you what
what did you think was happening that it
have any logic to it while it was
happening to you or no logic at all
there's no sense to it look the only
person that knows oneself is oneself you
know if you're crazy or not in your own
heart you know what motivates you and
when everyone around you is telling you
something absolutely opposite of what
you know to be true
well the whole thing becomes insane
the whole the whole environment is
unreal I was the only one who knew
apparently at least I thought I was the
only one that knew I'm not crazy I'm not
a psychopath
I don't have a lizard brain all these
things you're accusing me of but I have
a clinical record in which it says I
suffered from the hippie syndrome epi
syndrome you see everything to these
people is a syndrome or a disorder they
speak of character disorders you can
watch the video called f-word I
published it on my website watch the
video called f-word and you'll see these
doctors talking about character
disorders what on earth is a character
disorder well at that time they made it
sound like something that really exists
today we're much more enlightened and we
understand that this is nonsense
I understood that in 1968 but apparently
I was the only one that did it's the the
experience itself it's better described
in my book that I can possibly do it in
a in a radio interview it's intense it's
horrible and it's life-changing
I guess I'm reading some of the some of
the other documentation there were
studies done that proved that looking at
the people who came out of this program
they actually
a lot of them ended up doing worse doing
worse things than having worse outcomes
than than the average patient and that's
very you yourself you can talk about how
much you like about what happened to you
afterwards but none of this have any
positive outcome despite the the
quote-unquote doctors doing this oh no
the result the the statistics were
really clear it's called the hacker
report Oakridge reviews and clearly the
people that went through this program
did much worse than those who didn't I
did as well
I was derailed I was shipwrecked like
this so for the it took me ten years to
recover myself I went through a lot of
difficulty um my life was not good for
ten years following that fortunately I
didn't hurt anyone or commit any
irredeemable crimes today today
everything is fine I own my own house
and business and I've been married for
21 years and life is good
but ten years following that it was bad
it was hard to get hold of myself and
I'm sure many people died and who holds
responsibility for the crimes committed
by the people that went through this
program when clearly statistically
proven people that went through this
program committed serious crimes do you
want to talk a very interesting case
that and I guess you knew the guy while
you were in there and in Oakridge the
case of Matthew Charles Lamb oh yes do
you want to talk about his story I think
that that Landon's
Matt lambs case it may be the one case
that absolutely defines what this place
was about Matt lamb he shot four people
in truck for no apparent reason killed
two of them and maimed two of them with
a shotgun back in I believe it was 1965
so he was he was a very intelligent
articulate attractive he was the typical
cycle ad through and through he was dr.
Barker's favorite one of dr. Barker's
favorite patients he was given more more
LSD apparently than anyone in clinical
history and he was one of Barker's main
subjects his fate he was released from
Oak Ridge in 1972 where he went to live
with dr. Barker and his family on
Barker's farm on doing manual labor for
he next went to Israel and joined the
IDF and fought in the Yom Kippur War now
this is where it gets really complicated
if you look up Matt lamb on Wikipedia
you know that Wikipedia is just filled
with lives and manipulations story has
been altered he did indeed go to Israel
but they're claiming that the Israeli
military refused him
they didn't refuse him he joined the IDF
where he fought in the on Kippur War I
have Barker's own words telling me this
which I will publish so he fought in the
Yom Kippur War
he returned afterwards disillusioned
with the IDF that's Barker's words and
went back to Barker's farmed he next
went to Rhodesia where he was killed in
the bush war nineteen seventy six
seventy six I believe it was 76 he was
killed in the bush war by friendly fire
apparently so the questions that this
brings up first of all Matt lamb was
under a lieutenant governor's warrant
that is he was found not guilty by
reason of insanity that would mean that
he would essentially be locked up in a
mental hospital forever until he could
prove that he was no longer a danger to
anyone now the very fact that he told
Barker
he wanted to join a military that means
he wanted to have a gun in his hands
again as far as I know the only time he
ever had a gun in his hand
was to kill some innocent people as soon
as he indicated that he wanted military
experience he should have been
immediately returned to Oak Ridge not
given a passport and sent to Israel not
to mention why would Israel want a
convicted psychopathic killer in their
ranks why would they accept him what did
it take to have this guy transferred to
Israel and into the military where he
gets military training then comes back
to Canada clearly a psychopath with
military training there you go
Matthew charles lanam was the Manchurian
Candidate and he was proof definitive
proof that their program worked that
they could take a psychopath and direct
him into something useful
ie a soldier of fortune that's the Matt
lamb story very very interesting story
this brings up goes back to kind of the
MKULTRA the CIA's experiments in the 50s
60s and early 70s the documentation
which was investigated by the Church
Committee among others much of the
documentation was destroyed by the
director of the CIA and the person
running the program by his own admission
which if isn't one of the greatest
crimes against the record of our our
national history in the u.s. I don't
know it is but we know that a lot of
these things also went on in Canada
there was dr. Ewen Cameron with his
infamous sleep room experiments which
are well documented where much like
yourself you know basically normal
people had kind of gone to a
psychiatrist to seeking help for minor
issues and dr. Cameron ended up with CA
funding you know filling them with
sedatives for months on end and
filling them with LSD and playing tapes
over and over until they were basically
have their whole personalities wiped out
but there was I guess that book called
the psychopathy test you wanna do you
want to tell us what you know about the
relationship between dr. Barker the CA
funding that you know of that kind of
help put these experiments together yeah
I know a lot about it as a matter of
fact to some extent how the money came
to Oak Ridge who backed it up who got
the tapes who got the who got the
results of these experiments who got the
hours and hours and hours of videotape
of five or six or seven naked young men
in the capsule recorded by
state-of-the-art video who paid for it
and who got those tapes yeah it's all
there and it's definitely CIA or other
cutout organizations you might want to
read you might want to read Tom Mangold
if you know Tom mangled he's a BBC
reporter old school guy he's recently
written a book called splashed in that
book there's a chapter dedicated to my
start and he ties some things together
Tom Mangold is very well-connected he's
absolutely clear on who funded this and
what the experiments were about is not
conspiracy theory anymore this is these
are facts their historical record the
question now isn't isn't trying to prove
that this stuff happened or the CIA did
this or that the questions we should be
asking now is what what do we do about
who holds responsibility if anybody does
we don't have to I'm no longer writing
books and doing research trying to prove
the case the case is proven itself the
next step is what to do about it who has
responsibility if anyone
and are they still doing it how
successful worthy is that the reason why
today we see so many more clearly
psychopathic people attacking people
doing all kinds of horrendous crimes
believe me these crimes that people were
locked up for in Oakridge back in the
60s they were extraordinarily rare there
were wasn't it wasn't a lot of child
murderers the few that that happened
historically are pretty well documented
but it was nothing like it is now I
think everyone is clear that psychopaths
are among us and probably more than ever
in positions of authority because the
experiments from the 50s 60s early 70s
were so damn successful now we're
swimming in the results what do you
think you know you talk about what
should happen do you know if dr. Barker
is still I mean he must be a an old man
by now but you had talked about in your
book you speak about you found his
website
strangely called the Center for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Children and
that he was actually have riding with
him and probably practicing with him
people who weren't doctors but were
actually patients while you were in
there at Oakridge do you want to talk
about what dr. you want to talk about
the story dr. Barker after as you
started to kind of rediscover the real
history of this sure he's uh Elliott
Barker is still you know I won't even
call him dr. Barker Elliott Ark is still
in practice as far as I know although
this is my information is a few years
old but he's still in practice he runs a
foundation called the Canadian Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Children and that should scare you right
there that should make you wonder
because there is no person that I know
in history that was more cruel to
children than he was so anyway that's
his foundation you can look it up it
still exists it's connected to something
called empathetic parenting so he's
intimately involved in child development
what they discover about creating
Psychopaths I think this was their main
discovery you need to get them young we
were all teenagers or twenty-something
but what they discovered is you can
create a psychopath if you could get
them young enough thus is practice today
well I'll leave it to people to do their
own research on the Canadian Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Children
and empathetic parenting but if you look
deeply into this you'll find some really
bad news I'd like to read one more quote
that was in this was in The Globe and
Mail article but it's a quote that we
also do also discussed on blackout radio
was this is a quote from dr. Barker if
the process were one of eradicating a
set of disproved ideas and washing in
different social values then we would be
committing offenses as Grievous as those
involved in setting up the Third Reich
indeed the more sinister because of
their subtlety the difference he wrote
was that the patient's had not chosen
their values on the other hand if our
patients did not choose the deviate from
society's norms but rather were driven
to such deviations by internal
unresolved conflicts then we should help
them resolve such conflicts by every
means at our disposal including force
humiliation and deprivation if necessary
so he seems like he's he firmly has
these experiments of the of the Nazis in
in mind yeah I think his I think that's
that particular paper that he wrote I
think he makes it pretty clear that he
knew that he was up to something bad he
compared what he was doing to what the
Nazis did but he justified himself by
saying if we weren't so screwed up if us
patients were somehow so deviant then it
would justify what Nazis did isn't that
another way of
reading that yeah sure he in fact
admitted in that paper if you carry on a
little further down that he also says as
and something to the effect that as the
confrontation approaches a maximum the
permissible use of force also approaches
maximum so what is a maximum use of
force killing people isn't it alright
he's justifying you know he made some
serious mistakes in some of his own
publications which once again
demonstrates his arrogance the sheer
arrogance that they had back then I'm
sure they very much regret those words
today well you you were talking about
some of the use of force I mean you had
in your book you discussed the way
people were were subdued with towels and
you you know you saw some people who you
believe died in front of you you also
talked about you know threats of rape
going on in there and all this all the
time it's in my book it's uh it's the
details of the thing is horrendous
anyone that wants to read the the
prurient details please read my book
because I'm just not gonna repeat some
of the stuff publicly it's in the book
to read but you know some people kind of
like to read that to begin a thrill from
it which is unfortunate but people need
to know how I suppose what went on in
there even though its history you know
it this is is not contemporary there's
enough contemporary stuff going on to
keep us occupied but knowing the history
of how we got to where we are today is
pretty good thing oh absolutely
the I mean I think it goes a lot to what
some of the people in Guantanamo Bay or
what some of the torture that was being
done to people that they swept up in
Afghanistan terrorists or not a lot of
this medical torture and you know that
psychological torture
think sugar water bar to me this is you
know everyone knows what waterboarding
is now because it was a it's a the term
got coined to describe something that
was going on in Guantanamo but this very
same technique was going on was going on
in Oakridge probably slightly different
mechanics but the notion of making
someone think they're drowning with a
wet towel that was going on in Oakridge
decades ago this is remember this is
almost 50 years ago 48 some years ago
this was the beginning of discovering
these techniques and today they're still
effectively using the market yeah
absolutely
so what do you what would you like I
mean there's a there's these lawsuits
there's a idea of giving money to people
there's you know admissions of judges
there's articles in newspaper what would
you really like to see you know that
here's someone who's not seeking money
from this what would you like to see
happen to dr. Barker what would you like
this how would you like to see this
publicized what would you like to see
happen now at this point exactly what I
would like to see happened has already
happened all you have to do is just
google dr. Elliott T Barker just google
his name and look at his reputation look
at what comes up anyone that does the
least bit of research into Oakridge the
program and the doctors involved they
have no reputation everybody knows that
what they did was horrible and I suppose
they got away with it but they didn't
get away with it because they have a
horrible reputation they will go down in
history as bad people they're victims
won't the people that went through all
of this to one extent or another whoever
survived and whatever whatever kind of
condition they're in today many of them
were probably still in prison or very
confused people living very difficult
lives there's nothing to be done for
them damage is done but
you can't fix this there's nothing you
can do to fix it
all you can do is recognize what
happened and who is responsible and
that's already been done all of this
including this interview helps people
understand how bad these people work and
many of them are still alive and they
need to be held accountable they'll
never be held financially accountable
because their health their their
insurance and lawyers take care of all
of that and it's not about money anyway
you can't hand somebody money in and
they could make all of this go away they
are held responsible for the dirty deeds
that they did and they have no
professional reputation anymore that's
justice that's karma and that's this is
turned out exactly the way I hoped it
would turn out I don't want anything
more I'm not asking for more just that
people pay attention to this and don't
let it happen again
two things I want to do you want to talk
a little bit about dr. Hoffman who was
another doctor who I guess maybe a
little earlier on or when you were first
starting to investigate this looked at
your case and he came up with his own
professional opinion of dr. Barker do
you want to do you want to tell us what
that was it was pretty interesting yeah
the law the law firm that was
representing me in this case that went
on for 16 years
hired a number of expert witnesses some
fine financial people to to show loss of
income and and one of the one of the
expert witnesses was dr. Brian Hoffman
from North York Hospital in Toronto so I
had to fly from Vancouver to Toronto on
two separate occasions over a 10-year
period in this lawsuit where he
conducted interviews and we had
extensive discussions and he examined my
my progress and my life
and he came to basically the same
conclusion that I came to a long time
ago I'm not crazy
I never was not a psychopath I'm just
about as normal a human being as you're
going to find long I got quite
successful in life so dr. Barker wrote
his his review of our meetings for the
the court case which eventually never
came to court was settled out of court
that's another story I described that in
my book speaking of another group of
people that I found look pretty evil in
your book was you you initially had kind
of come across the paperwork that your
clinical records some of the paperwork
and you went to you're gonna have to
tell me the names of it but basically
what I think in the United States would
be the American Medical Association but
in Canada and do you want to talk about
how you know your initial attempts to
get this we're kind to to bring this to
their attention we're just kind of slept
off Oh total cover this is a mutual
admiration society is what they do this
would be the College of Physicians and
Surgeons and the Health Professions
Review Board something I forget the name
but they are basically they're supposed
to be monitoring the behavior of of
their own colleagues and preventing this
kind of thing but that's not what they
do in reality so it's no surprise to me
that in the beginning they just wrote
this all off and claimed that it didn't
happen at all until abundant evidence
proved that it did happen I have a lot
of communication back and forth a box
full of files I have no respect for
these organizations at all they just
they protected the the guilty and Smith
did it's shocking this is not something
that people can ignore and like the news
loves to do call everything a conspiracy
theory or say it's it's not what it was
uh you know this is in the courts in its
it's in the news and there's people like
you testify
- it is there anything else that you
want to talk about that I missed or that
I that you think that you'd like to say
well you know there's so many facets to
this story that you can't really you
can't cover it in an interview there's
too much to discuss these too many
facets to this and one thing will carry
you somewhere else so I'm happy to
answer any questions that that people
ask me but I can't really spill it all
out in an interview all I can say is
please read the book and then ask me
questions I'll gladly expand on any of
that and tell you anything more that
that I can follow up on various issues
that I brought up in the book and also
Tom mangles book and also Jon Ronson's
psychopath test he writes about me in
that book as well and some good news I
can give you some good news with this
that the psychopathy machine is in the
process of being turned into a movie
I've already signed a deal very good
very good so you know being that we live
in a visual age people don't have too
much time for reading anymore with
bombarded with too much of this stuff
that we can only I don't know what cover
the surface of things issues like this
but what might take this more in depth
is turning it into a movie so good to
know that that's in process that really
makes a big difference of the public
perception of things do you want to
mention your the website of the book and
mention the name of the book and where
people can get it the book is called the
psychopath machine it's available on
Amazon and all the other book selling
places and you can find my website I
would suggest people that want to know
what a condensed version of this to
understand quite a lot of it go to my
website the psychopath machine calm and
look at the videos go to the media site
and there are I think four videos look
at watch f-word f-word video was shot at
the time and it's very revealing the
only reason why this this video is
available to anyone is its displayed in
my book how I managed to get a copy of
this video which was aired once and then
embargoed by CTV back years ago if you
asked them about it they would say it
doesn't exist but I got hold of a copy
of it and now it's everywhere
so go to the website and watch those
videos and that will give you a lot to
think about
I definitely suggest people do that and
I'm gonna put you know we always do a
transcript of the interview and we'll
put the interview online and then I'll
put all of some of the documentation I
found about the case that was available
and some of these newspaper articles on
there of course you in your book and the
appendix of your book you have you know
you know you have several examples of
these clinical records showing listing
the the drugs that you were administered
and you even have some of your
correspondence with dr. Barker and
they're so very interesting it's very
well documented
thank you very much for for coming to
talk this can't be an easy subject for
you to talk about but I appreciate you
talking about it but it's been my
pleasure it's really not hard for me to
talk about this is so far in the past
and things have worked out so well for
me that you know life is good I'm
enjoying myself and I enjoyed this
conversation well good and it is worth
saying that despite that you endure that
and then went through some very hard
times after the fact you you want to
talk a little bit about your life that
they give people some hope that you know
I I don't like to consider myself a
survivor because then you kind of you
take this this victimization approach
and I never like to do that in my life I
like to just get on with it just put
that behind you and get on with it but I
think it's important that people know
these things because if you don't it
still goes on if people get away with
doing things like this
like like they did then they continue to
do it and people are oblivious to it
well the more people are aware the
better fortunately I got through it
without I can't say I'd wasn't harmed I
was but it took ten years to get over it
but you know I I'm a beach ball it just
naturally rises back up well good that I
think it gives it gives people hope and
uh you know they were when I read 1200
people affected by this you know when
your story is repeated 1200 times and
for many many years it's quite shocking
so I was very glad to talk to you and
glad that glad to hear your illness in
the condition you're in and I wish you
luck with the movie and again everybody
should definitely get they get the book
and read it it really should be read to
understand what was going on back then
and and that our our tax dollars
ultimately paid for so yeah thank you
very much Steve nice David nice talking
thank you
[Music]
this is our hidden history
you